---
layout: chapter
title: 001 - Prologue
modified:
categories: chapter
excerpt:
tags: []
comments: true
image:
  feature:
  teaser:
  thumb:
date: 2015-07-14T19:58:25-07:00
---

[Prologue](original: プロローグ)

[I am Motosuu Rano, 22 years of age.](original: 本須　麗乃もとすうらの、22歳。)

[I really, REALLY love books, and love them much more than a steady source of food.](original: わたしは本が好きだ。大好きだ。三度のご飯より愛してる。)


[I love being able to touch someone else's knowledge through the written word, and even to bear witness to their delusions. From there on, being able to follow the writers thoughts is enough to make my heart dance and face break into a smile.](original: 活字を通して誰かの知識に触れるのが好きだし、妄想に触れるのも好き。そこから筆者の思想をたどるのも心が踊って顔が思わずニヨニヨしてしまう。)

[Reading a single volume filled with knowledge gives me a very accomplished feeling. Being able to see a completely unknown world, be it through fiction or the photo albums at the bookstore, can really help to broaden your horizons, don't you think?](original: 様々な知識が一冊にまとめられている本を読むと、とても得をした気分になれるし、自分がこの目で見たことがない世界を、本屋や図書館に並ぶ写真集を通して見るのも、世界が広がっていくようで陶酔できると思わない？)

[Even the old stories and fairy tales of different countries can really give you the sense of being able to glimpse at the customs and society of another place and time. Every single place and time has its own history and culture contained within it, and being able to peruse throughout it can really make you lose track of time.](original: 外国の古い物語だって、違う時代の、違う国の風習が垣間見えて趣深いし、あらゆる分野において歴史があり、それを紐解いていけば、時間を忘れるなんていつものこと。)


[Psychology, Religion, History, Geography, Education, Folkloristics, Mathematics, Physics, Geology, Chemistry, Biology, Art, Athletics, Language, and stories... I love books, which contain the massively piled up knowledge that humanity has obtained, from the bottom of my heart.](original: 心理学、宗教、歴史、地理、教育学、民俗学、数学、物理、地学、化学、生物学、芸術、体育、言語、物語……人類の積もり積もった知識がぎっちり詰め込まれた本を心の底から愛している。)


[The bulky and unwieldy encyclopedias that continue forever,](original: ぶ厚く連なる百科事典も、)

[The complete works of literature that contain every single volume,](original: 一冊も欠けることなく揃った文学全集も、)

[The textbooks that look plain and simple at first glance, but are sophisticated within,](original: 一見簡素に見える表紙でも内容は高度な専門誌も、)

[The magazines that contain colorful photographs throughout their pages,](original: 写真を多用したカラフルな雑誌も、)

[The novels that contain difficult to understand expressions of writing,](original: 小難しい言い回しが多い小説も、)

[The light novels that are thin and sparse of content, but sell many volumes,](original: 内容は薄くてもよく売れているライトノベルも、)

[The large picture books that all children love to read,](original: 子供向けの大きな絵本も、)

[The manga that can be said to be a piece of culture that Japan can be proud of,](original: 日本の誇る文化になっている漫画も、)

[Even the doujinshi that amateurs put their heart and soul into,](original: 素人が作った同人誌さえ、)

[Once I open up each one, they intoxicate me like the finest of wine.](original: パラリとページを開けば、わたしを酔わせる美酒となる。)


[After all of that, I love slowly breathing in the distinctive moldy and dusty air contained within a library archive filled with old books. All of those books, relics of a long gone past, are enough to make me writhe towards climax.](original: それから、図書館の古い本が集められた書庫の古い本独特の少々黴臭い匂いや埃っぽい匂いが好き。ゆっくりと吸い込み、そこに年を経た本があるだけで絶頂を迎えられそうなほど身悶える。)

[Of course, I also can't get enough of the smell of new paper and ink, just imagining what sorts of new knowledge is written within fills me with joy.](original: もちろん、新しい紙とインクの匂いもたまらない。そこに何が書かれているのか、新しい知識があるか、考えるだけで楽しくなれる。)


[I want to live my whole life completely surrounded by books.](original: 一生を本に囲まれて生きていきたい。)

[If I could, I would live my whole life in a library built to not let books get sun damaged, but still allow ample ventilation.](original: 本を傷めないように日光が当たらないように、しかし、風通しは良いように作られた書庫で、できることなら一生過ごしたい。)

[Even if by my lifestyle for books I'm called creepy with my pale skin, being unhealthy and out of shape, and scolded for forgetting meals, I'll never let go of my books!](original: 本を読むことにできる限りの時間を費やすことで、肌が青白くて薄気味悪いと言われようと、運動不足で不健康と言われようと、食事を忘れて叱られようと本を手放すことなんてできない。)

[If we are all going to die anyway, I would like to die by being buried with books. I think lying in bed getting buried by books is much better than dying peacefully on the floor.](original: どうせ死ぬなら、本に埋もれて死にたいと思う。畳の上で往生するより、ベッドの上で本に埋もれて死ぬ方がよほど幸せな死に方だと思う。)

[... No, to be more exact, I thought that.](original: ――いえ、正確には、思っていた。)


[In fact, I just died getting buried by books during a massive earthquake!](original: 実は、わたし！ついさっき、大地震で本に埋もれて死にました！)
[Indeed, exactly as I had requested, what of it?](original: えぇ、まさに、希望通りですが、何か？)


[I just got my long cherished wish, but I can't honestly say thank you to god. I just took the librarian exam, and in this age of scarce employment I was just hired as a librarian at a university library.](original: 本望だったけれど、神様ありがとうと素直に思えないのは、司書資格を取って、就職難のこの時代に大学図書館への就職が決まったばかりだったから。)


[God, please hear my wish.](original: 神様、お願いします。)

[If possible, please reincarnate me.](original: できれば、転生させてください。)

[I haven't read nearly enough, even in the next life, I want to read more and more.](original: まだ読み足りない。次の生でも、本が読みたい。)


[And I also want to be a librarian at a large library.](original: それから、図書館の司書になりたい。)

[All day long, I want to live my life surrounded by books.](original: 一日中、本に囲まれて過ごしたい。)

[Of course, I know that a librarians job is not to read books. If I actually started seriously working, I wouldn't be able to read books. Of course I know that.](original: もちろん、司書の仕事は本を読むことじゃない。仕事していたら、本なんて読めない。わかっている。)

[Even still, if I took another job, I wouldn't be able to spend nearly as much time surrounded by books. Just by being surrounded by books gives me happiness.](original: でも、他の仕事より、本に囲まれている時間は圧倒的に長いじゃない。本に囲まれているだけで、幸せだもの。)

[Just being able to breathe in the scent of paper and ink is enough to give you an entranced feeling, it's the same for everyone, right?](original: 紙とインクの匂いを吸い込むだけでうっとりする気持ち、誰にだってわかるでしょ？)

[Facilitating the transfer of knowledge by the written word, only humans have been able to accomplish this feat. Just by looking into history you can tell that they have continued this intellectual feat for thousands of years, this is enough to make anyones heart flutter, right?](original: 知識を伝達するために文字を残すなんて、人間だけが行う知的な作業が昔からずっと行われてきたなんて、歴史をちょっと振り返ってみれば、絶対心ときめくでしょ？)


[Just being able to read books is enough.](original: 本が読めればそれでいい。)

[Now please god, if you understand my desire, please reincarnate me right now.](original: さぁ、神様。わたしの願いがわかったら、とっとと転生させてください。)

[Once I get reincarnated, I'll be able to read books once again.](original: 生まれ変わって、また、本を読むんだから。)
