---
layout: chapter
title: 002 - a New Life
modified:
categories: chapter
excerpt:
tags: []
comments: true
image:
  feature:
  teaser:
  thumb:
date: 2015-07-14T19:58:36-07:00
---

[A New Life](original: 新しい生活)


[Bang! Bang! I was awoken by a loud sound of what sounded like something hitting the floor or table. Each time the sound resonated, the place where I was sleeping, and in turn causing a pain like someone had just hit me in the head. I moaned from the pain and knitted my eyebrows tightly.](original: 　ダンッ！　ダンッ！　と何かを床や台に叩きつけているような音と共に、わたしが寝ている場所がぐらんぐらんと揺れた。振動するたびに、まるで頭を殴られているように頭が痛み、わたしは小さく呻きながら眉をきつく寄せた。)


[So noisy... seriously so noisy.](original: 　うるさい……。マジうるさい。)


[That annoying sound didn't seem like it would end anytime soon, and as it was occuring at an even rhythm, it was not something easily ignored while trying to sleep.](original: 　その迷惑な騒音と揺れはすぐに終わるものではないようで、一定のリズムで続いてて、とても寝ていられない。)

[Each vibration from the sound reverberating in my head and thus causing my awakened consciousness to attempt to cover my ears and block out the sound.](original: 　ぐわんぐわんと頭に響いてくる振動に意識が覚醒したわたしは耳を塞いで騒音をやり過ごそうとした。)

[Yet despite this, my body isn't able to move like it's supposed to, seeming to be afflicted by the fever and joint pain caused by the flu spreading throughout my body.](original: 　それなのに、身体が自分の思った通りに動かない。インフルエンザにでもかかったような高熱と関節の痛みが全身に広がっている。)


> [**Rano** "Ugh..."](original: 「うっ……」)


[In order to try to grasp the situation my glasses are necessary. With my eyes still closed, I tried to reach out where I always kept them, underneath my pillow. As I was searching, pain was shooting throughout my body, dulling my hand's movements.](original: 　現状把握には眼鏡が必要だ。わたしは目を閉じたまま、いつだって枕元に置いてあった眼鏡を探した。身体中がじんわりと痺れているようで、手の動きは鈍い。)

[As I restlessly moved my hand about, I heard the rustling sound of the dry, paper or grass like bedding beneath me.](original: 　もそもそと動く手の動きに合わせて、カサカサと自分の体の下で紙や草のようなものが擦れるような音がした。)


> [**Rano** "... What is that noise?"](original: 「……何の音？」)


[Instead of hearing the hoarse voice I expected from the fever, I instead heard a high, childish voice escape my mouth. No matter how you looked at it it wasn't my familiar, usual voice.](original: 　熱のせいでかすれているはずなのに、高くて幼い声がわたしの口から出た。どう考えても聞き慣れた自分の声ではない。)

[Ignoring the impulse to go back to sleep from my feverish, sluggish body, and unable to ignore the abnormality emanating from my surroundings, I slowly opened my heavy eyes.](original: 　高熱で全身がだるいので寝ていたいが、自分を取り巻く異常性をこれ以上無視することもできず、わたしはゆっくりと重い瞼を開けた。)

[I seemed to have a fairly high fever, as my vision was blurred and hazy. The tears seemed to serve as a replacement for my glasses, as my vision seemed much clearer than normal.](original: 　結構高い熱があるようで、わたしの視界は潤んで歪んでいる。涙が眼鏡の役割でもしているのだろうか、普段の視界よりずっと鮮明に見えた。)


> [**Rano** "Eh?"](original: 「え？」)


[What entered my vision was what was likely originally white, but was now stained a sooty black cieling, several thick pillars, and a giant spiderweb.](original: 　目に入ったのは、元はおそらく白かったのだろうが、煤けて黒く汚れた天井と何本も組み合わされた黒っぽい太い柱と巨大な蜘蛛の巣。)

[Each and every one of them were things that were completely absent from my memory.](original: 　どれもこれもわたしの記憶には全くないものだった。)


> [**Rano** "... Where is this place?"](original: 「……ここ、どこ？」)


[Being careful not to unleash tears from my teary eyes, I moved only my eyes to look at my surroundings. The one thing that I could immediately tell was that this place was obviously not the Japan I was born and raised in.](original: 　潤んだ目から涙が零れないように気を付けながら、眼球だけで周りを見回せば、明らかにわたしが生まれ育った日本ではないことだけはすぐにわかった。)

[Looking at the architecture of the cieling, it was easy to guess that this place was obviously not japanese styled. It appeared more western styled, and not of modern design, but much older.](original: 　天井の形状から察する建築様式は和風ではなく、西洋風。それも現代の鉄骨のものではなく、昔のものっぽい。)

[The bed I was laying on was hard, and there was no matress, but an oddly prickly material used in place of a cushion. The blanket I was covered in seemed to be quite dirty and gave off a strange smell. And are there mites or ticks here? My body seems to be strangely itchy in places.](original: 　わたしが寝かされているベッドは固くて、マットレスがない。そして、異様にチクチクする素材がクッション代わりに使われている。上掛けとして掛けられている薄汚れた布からは変な臭いもするし、ノミやダニがいるのか、身体のあちこちが痒い。)


> [**Rano** "Wait a minute..."](original: 「ちょっと、待って……」)


[My last memory was of being buried underneath a pile of books, and it seemed like I wasn't rescued from underneath that pile. At the very least, as far as I know an uncleanly hospital that would cover their patients' with a dirty cloth doesn't exist in Japan.](original: 　わたしの記憶の最後にあるのは大量の本に押しつぶされたことだが、何とか救出されたというわけでもないようだ。少なくとも、こんな薄汚れた布に患者を寝かせる不潔な病院は、わたしの知る限り、日本には存在しない。)

[Timidly I placed my hand before my eyes, and what entered my vision was a unhealthily thin small childs hand.](original: 　恐る恐るわたしは自分の手を目の前にかざしてみた。視界に映ったのは痩せこけた細くて小さな子どもの手だった。)

[I commonly stayed indoors and read books all day, so an untanned, unhealthy skin tone was the same, but as I was 22 years old I had a proper adult's hand. This malnourished small child's hand and my old hand are clearly different.](original: 　わたしは基本的に屋内に引きこもって、本を読んでいたので、日焼けしていなくて不健康そうなところは同じだ。だがしかし、22歳だったわたしの手はきちんと大人の手だった。こんな栄養失調っぽい小さな子どもの手とは違う。)

[Consciously opening and closing my hand, the child's hand did the same. The body that was moving under my own will was obviously not my normal one. The shock from this caused the inside of my mouth to get dry and parched.](original: 　握ったり、開いたり、わたしの意思で動く子供の手。自分の意思で動かせる身体が見慣れた自分のものではない。あまりの衝撃に口の中が干上がったようにからからになっていく。)


> [**Rano** "...What... is this?"](original: 「……何、これ？」)


[Could this perhaps be reincarnation? Was my wish heard by god, and was I reincarnated to satisfy my wish to be able to read books once again? Incomprehensible.](original: 　これはもしかしたら転生だろうか。わたしの願いを聞き届けた神様が、また本を読めるように転生させてくれたのだろうか。わけがわからない。)

[I wished for even the smallest piece of information, and slowly raised my heavy head. Completely disregarding my hair, now drenched in sweat and stuck to my neck, I looked around the room.](original: 　わたしは少しでも情報が欲しくて、重たい頭を上げて熱のある身体をゆっくりと起こす。汗でべったりと髪が首元に張り付いているのにも構わず、部屋の中を見回した。)

[All there was was several racks serving as beds with dirty cloths above them, and several wooden chests to contain things, there were no bookshelves to be found.](original: 　ベッドらしき台と、その上にかけられた薄汚れた上掛けと物を入れておくための木箱がいくつかあるだけで、本棚は見当たらない。)


> [**Rano** "There are... no books..."](original: 「本、ないし……」)


[There was an open doorway, and without realizing it the sound assaulting my senses had disappeared. I heard instead the sound of someone walking around and doing something.](original: 　ドアが空いたままの出入り口があった。いつの間にか、頭に響く騒音はなくなっていたが、誰かがいて、バタバタと足音を立てて歩きまわり、何かしている音が聞こえている。)

[I have no idea what the situation is, but based off of the furniture in the room, this seems to be an older western style. It's not modern though, so either it's not a very civilized country, or perhaps went into the past. Exactly how am I supposed to grasp the present situation.](original: 　どういう状況なのか全くわからない。柱や壁の様子、部屋の中の家具を見れば、昔の西洋風だと思う。ただ、現代のものではない。あまり文明的ではない国か、過去にタイムスリップでもしたのだろうか。一体どうすれば現状把握ができるだろうか。)


> [**Rano** "Am I seeing a weird dream on the verge of death?"](original: 「死に際に変な夢でも見てるってこと？」)


[As I slowly contemplated using my feverish, muddled mind, a single woman showed up, did they hear my voice or hear my movements?](original: 　高熱でぼんやりとする頭で悩んでいると、わたしの動く音に気付いたのか、声が聞こえたのか、一人の女性が姿を現した。)

[She had a triangular hankerchief tied to her head, and seemed to be an unfortunate beauty in her upper twenties. Her face was a beautiful but she was very dirty, if she just washed her face and clothing she would be quite the beauty, how unfortunate.](original: 　三角巾のようなものを頭にした20代後半くらいの残念美人だ。顔立ちは美人なのだが、小汚い。服も顔も洗って、清潔で小奇麗にすればいいのに、残念すぎる。)

[Personally, for both others and myself, I don't put too much thought into appearances so long as they aren't dirty and unsightly. Looking at it from the other direction, no matter how beautiful they are, if they are dirty and unsightly it ruins everything.](original: 　わたしは清潔で見苦しくなければ、自分に対しても他人に対しても恰好には大してこだわらない。裏を返せば、不潔で見苦しいのはいくら美形でも勘弁してほしい。)


> [**?** "Maine, %&$#+@*+#%?"](original: 「マイン、％＆＄＃＋＠＊＋＃％？」)

> [**Rano** "Agh!?"](original: 「ぃあっ！？」)


[At the same time as I heard the woman's incomprehensible words, there was a flood of memories that were not mine that forced themselves into my head.](original: 　意味がわからない女性の言葉を耳にすると同時に、一気にわたしのものではない記憶が堰を切ったように流れ込んできた。)

[In several blinks of the eye, several years worth of memories were forced in, and I reflexively held my head from the unpleasant feeling from my brain feeling like it was being churned about.](original: 　数回瞬きするくらいの時間に数年分の記憶が押し込まれて、脳味噌がぐちゃぐちゃに掻き回されるような不快感にわたしは思わず頭を押さえた。)


> [**?** "Maine, are you alright? I was very worried as you showed no sign of waking up at all."](original: 「マイン、大丈夫？　全然目覚めないから心配したのよ」)

*From here on Rano will now be known as Maine for the rest of the story*

> [**Maine** "... Mom?"](original: 「……母さん？」)


[The flood of memories told me that the woman gently caressing my head and looking into my face was my mother and that my name was Maine.](original: 　ゆっくりと頭を撫でて顔を覗きこんでくる女性は自分の母親だと、マインというのが自分の名前だと、流れ込んできた記憶が訴えてくる。)

[The words that I couldn't understand just a few moments ago could now be understood, but I was in a severe state of confusion from the massive amount of information that my mind had received. Honestly, even if the flood of information was necessary, I would have preferred if it took into consideration my current physical condition.](original: 　先程まではわからなかった言葉もわかるようになっているが、大量の情報をいきなり受け取った頭はひどい混乱状態だ。正直、情報を流しこむにしても、体調を考慮してほしい。)

[The person who had wished to reincarnate in order to read more books was in fact me. But to suddenly be reincarnated and to be told to recognize the woman in front of me to be my mother, I can't just immediately obediently accept it as fact.](original: 　本が読みたくて転生したいと望んだのは自分だけど、実際に転生してしまうと、目の前の女性を母親だと認識していても素直に受け入れることなどすぐにはできない。)


> [**Mom** "How are you feeling? It seems like you have a headache."](original: 「気分はどう？　頭が痛そうね」)


[The fingertips that was heading towards my forehead was unevenly dyed colors such as yellow and green. Does this parent perhaps work in a dying or staining related job? They are similar to the indigo dying workers that I remember seeing in Japan.](original: 　自分の額に向かって伸びてくる指先が、黄色や緑で斑に染まっている。この母親は染色を仕事にしているのだろうか。日本で見た藍染職人の指先がこんな感じに染まっていたことを思い出した。)

[I somehow don't want to be touched by the mother that I only know of existing in my memories, knowing her and not knowing her at the same time. So in order to dodge being touched by the hand approaching me I covered my head with the smelly blanket, then closing my eyes and denying contact.](original: 　記憶の中には存在して、知っているけど知らない母親に何となく触れられたくなくて、伸ばされた手を避けるように、わたしは臭い布団に寝転がった。そして、そのまま目を閉じることで、接触を拒否する。)


> [**Maine** "My head, still hurts. I want to sleep."](original: 「……まだ、頭痛い。寝たい」)

> [**Mom** "I see, then slowly go back to sleep."](original: 「そう、ゆっくり休みなさい」)


[While waiting for my mother to exit the room packed tightly with beds, I sank deep into thought.](original: 　ぎゅうぎゅうにベッドが並べられた寝室らしき部屋を出ていく母親を待って考える。)

[My mind was still dizy with fever, but I can't possibly just quietly go to sleep with my mind in confusion like this.](original: 　高熱で頭がくらくらしているが、こんなに混乱したまま、おとなしく寝ていられない。)


> [**Main** "I without a doubt... died then didn't I?"](original: 「間違いなく……死んだ、んだよね？」)


[What popped into my mind was my own mothers appearance. To the mother that I will never again meet, I apologized from the bottom of my heart.](original: 　ふと脳裏に浮かんだのはわたし自身の母親の姿。もう会えない母に心の中で謝罪する。)

[I'm sure she is angry, saying "That's why I told you to reduce the number of books you had so many times!", being angry whilst crying.](original: 　きっと怒っているはずだ。「だから、本の数を減らせって何度も何度も言ったのに！」って、泣いて怒っているに違いない。)

[I slowly raised my dull, heavy hand to wipe the tears from my eyes.](original: 　だるくて重い手を持ち上げて、目尻の涙を拭った。)


> [**Maine** "Mom, I'm so sorry..."](original: 「母さん、ごめん……」)


[After muttering the apology that will never reach her, I consciously changed my thoughts. I decided to carefully go through the young Maine's memorys that just flowed into me.](original: 　届かない謝罪を呟いた後、わたしは意識的に思考を切り替えて、たった今流れ込んできた幼いマインの記憶の数々をゆっくりと反芻し始めた。)

[Maine's most recent memory was being under the fever, and being in constant, unbearable pain.](original: 　マインの直近の記憶は熱で苦しくて、苦しくて、たまらなかったこと。)

[Somehow or another, I think this body's original owner, Maine, died and I possessed her body afterwards. Or perhaps, while being delerious with fever, I regained my previous life's memories.](original: 　何となくだけれど、この身体の本来の持ち主であるマインが死んで、わたしが憑依したのではないかと思う。それとも、高熱に浮かされたため、前世の記憶を取り戻したのだろうか。)


> [**Maine** "Either way I think is fine, since I'll have to be living as Maine from now onwards anyways..."](original: 「どっちでもいいよね。これからマインとして生きていかなきゃいけないのは変わらないんだし……」)


[Then what I must do is to understand the surrounding situation the best I can from Maine's memories, otherwise my new family will immediately get suspicious of me.](original: 　ならば、覚えている限りのマインの記憶から周囲の状況を少しでも理解しないと、いきなり家族に不審がられてしまう。)

[I'm desperately trying to remember it all, but Maine's memories are of a young girl who still can't speak very well. She couldn't completely understand all of the words that her mother and father spoke, and hence the meaning too can't be understood. Inevitably her vocabulary is limited, so the majority of her memories are cryptic at best.](original: 　必死に思い返すが、マインの記憶はまだ言葉が発達していない幼女の記憶なので、父親や母親の言葉がはっきりと理解できない。意味がわからない。必然的に使える語彙が少なくて、記憶の大半が意味不明だ。)


> [**Maine** "Uwaa, what am I supposed to do with this then..."](original: 「うわぁ、ちょっと、これ、どうするよ……」)


[The things that I can say with definite certainty from seeing young Maine's memories is that her family is 4 people. The mother that I had just met was her mother, her sister Tori, and that Maine's father is a soldier or similar occupation.](original: 　幼いマインの視線から見た記憶から確信を持てたのは、4人家族で、先程の女性が母親であること。姉、トゥーリがいること。マインの父親は兵士のような職業についていること。)

[Plus, and this is the really important part, that this place is not earth.](original: 　そして、大事なことは、ここが地球ではないことだ。)

[Within Main's memories, her mothers appearance also had that triangular cloth, but also her hair color, which was a jade like green. There didn't seem to be any unnaturalness such as from dying it, it was really green. It was such a shocking color that I almost want to check whether it is a wig or not.](original: 　マインの記憶の中に、三角巾を取った母親の姿もあったのだが、髪の色がなんと翡翠のような緑だった。染めているような不自然な色ではなくて、本当に緑。驚きのあまり引っ掴んで、かつらじゃないか確認してしまいたくなるような色だ。)

[Rather than thinking Mom is a cosplayer who constantly wears a wig and dirty clothes around the house, it's more realistic to think this is a different world.](original: 　常にかつらをつけて生活している薄汚れたコスプレイヤーが母親だと考えるよりは、世界が違うと考えた方が現実的だろう。)

[By the way, my sister's hair color is Turquoise, and my fathers' hair color is blue. Maine's hair color is a deep blue. Maybe it's more pleasant to think that it's more close to black, or that grieve that I too am a part of this Cosplay family.](original: 　ちなみに、姉の髪は青緑で、父の髪は青。マインの髪が紺色だ。黒に近くて良かったと思うべきか、コスプレ家族の仲間であることを嘆くべきか。)

[Anyway, there is no mirror within this house, and even if I search my memories I don't have a clear picture of what my appearance is like. Well, based on my parents and sisters good facial structure, I think that mine too should be pretty good. Plus, I'm sure I am quite dirty right now too.](original: 　とりあえず、家の中には鏡がないようで、いくら記憶を探っても、髪の色以外の自分の詳しい容姿についてはわからない。まぁ、両親の顔立ちと姉の顔立ちから察するに、元はそれほど悪くないと思う。そして、薄汚れているのは間違いない。)


> [**Maine** "Man, I really want to have a bath... but does this house even have one?"](original: 「あぁ、お風呂入りたい。……けど、あるのかな？」)


[In actuallity, compared to my living standards, my own appearance isn't really that much of a concern. The biggest problem is that this new home I find myself living in looks incredibly poor.](original: 　実際、生活する上で自分の顔立ちなんて、それほど問題ではない。一番問題なのは、新しく生活することになるウチがものすごく貧しいことだ。)

[If I look around at my surroundings, one thing that is painfully clear, is that the clothing that a sick person such as I am wearing is incredibly worn out and thin. It's already falling apart, and even for a hand me down from my sister, it's condition is horrible.](original: 　自分の回りを見てみれば、嫌でもわかることだが、病人である自分が包まれている布が擦り切れて薄くなっていて、すでにぼろぼろだ。姉のお下がりにしてもひどすぎる。)

[At first I thought it was just harassment, but by searching through Maine's memories, even her mother's and sister's clothing is patched together and falling apart as well. This must be my new home's standard level of living.](original: 　最初は嫌がらせでもされているのかと思ったが、マインの記憶にある母の服も継ぎ接ぎが当たり前の襤褸だし、姉の服も似たり寄ったりだ。これが新しいウチの標準なのだろう。)

[Only my father is wearing comparitively better clothing that is in better condition and with minimal patching. But that clothing seems to have been granted from his soldier profession on a one every couple of years basis.](original: 　父親だけが比較的丈夫そうで、継ぎ接ぎの少ない服を着ているようだが、これは兵士の仕事着で数年に一度支給されるかららしい。)

[This house also doesn't seem to be a single home, as from the closest stone brick wall I can hear footsteps and what seem like the neighbors voices, so this might be an apartment building.](original: 　この家も一軒家ではないようで、一番間近にあるレンガのような石造りの壁の向こうからは階段を上るような足音とお隣さんらしき人の声が聞こえてくる。もしかしたら、集合住宅のようなところだろうか。)


[Hey, isn't reincarnation usually supposed to be as a noble or something similar... someplace that doesn't have discomfort in daily life?](original: 　ねぇ、転生ってさ、普通お貴族様みたいな……生活に不自由しないところに生まれない？)


[It's such an environment that I unwittingly breathe a sigh, as in my previous life I lived in a normal Japanese household, and the difference in living standards is quite stark.](original: 　あまりの環境に思わず溜息を吐いた。前世は日本でごく普通の一般家庭だったのに、ずいぶんと生活力に差がある。)

[I don't quite know what place or time the country I am living in is in, but Japan was a good country. It was natural for good things to overflow, such as cloth that is good on the skin, soft beds, or books, or books, or books...](original: 　今生きているここが、いつの時代のどこの国か知らないけれど、日本は良い国だった。当たり前に良いものが溢れていた。肌触りの良い布とか、柔らかいベッドとか、本とか、本とか、本とか……。)


> [**Main** "Haa, I want to read a book, I have a feeling if I read one my fever would go down."](original: 「ハァ、本読みたい。読んだら熱が下がる気がする」)


[So long as I have books I can handle any sort of horrid environment. I lightly tapped my head with my finger, and searched my memories for books. Where within this house would the bookshelf be, I wonder.](original: 　どんなに劣悪な環境でも、本があれば我慢できる。わたしは軽く頭に指を当てて、記憶の中で本を探す。一体家の中のどこに本棚があるのだろうか。)


> [**?** "Maine, are you awake?"](original: 「マイン、起きてる？」)


[As if to obstruct my thoughts, a young girl of probably 7-8 years of age entered the room with light feet. According to my memories she seems to be my sister Tori.](original: 　思考を邪魔するように、7～8歳くらいの幼女が足音も軽く入ってきた。記憶にあった姉のトゥーリだ。)

[I could tell from a glance that her carelessly braided turquoise hair has had very little care done on it. And just like my mother I wish that she too would at least wash her face. It's a complete waste of her cute face.](original: 　無造作に三つ編みにした青緑の髪は大した手入れをされていないのがすぐにわかるぱさつき具合。母親と同じく薄汚れた顔も洗って欲しい。可愛い顔立ちなのにもったいない。)

[Perhaps me immediately thinking this is influenced by my Japanese point of view, as even foreigners consider us as abnormal.](original: 　わたしがついついそう思ってしまうのは、外国からは病的な清潔好きと言われる日本人の視点で見るからだろうか。)

[But if you are poor all the more reason to take as great care of living healthily as possible, as if you fall sick you might not even be able to afford the doctor's visit.](original: 　でも、貧乏ならなおさら衛生環境に気を付けなければ、病気になって医者にかかる方がお金はかかるはず。)

[But, all of that is of no importance, right now what is most important is one thing only.](original: 　だが、そんなことはどうでもいい。今、この状況で一番大事なのは一つだけだ。)

*Words in quotes are said in japanese.*

> [**Maine** "Tori, can you bring me a 'book'?"](original: 「トゥーリ、『本』持ってきて？」)


[There is already a sister this old, there should be at least 10 picture books somewhere in this house. Even if I need to rest to get over my sickness, I can still at least read a book.](original: 　これくらいの姉もいるのだから、家の中に絵本の10冊くらいはあるはずだ。病気で寝ていても本くらいは読める。)

[I was able to specially reincarnate, there is nothing more important than being able to read books from another world.](original: 　せっかく生まれ変わったのだ。異世界の本を堪能することが何より大事に決まっている。)


> [**Maine** "Tori, pretty please?"](original: 「トゥーリ、お願い」)


[Begging as her cute sister, Tori had a look of puzzlement on her face as she tilted her head.](original: 　可愛い妹のおねだりに、トゥーリはきょとんとした顔で首を傾げた。)


> [**Tori** "Eh? What's a 'book'?"](original: 「え？『本』って何？」)

> [**Maine** "What... uh, something that has 'pictures' or 'words' 'written' into it..."](original: 「何って……えーと、『絵』や『字』が『書かれた』もので……」)

> [**Tori** "Maine, I have no idea what you are saying? Can you please properly speak?"](original: 「マイン、何言ってるかわからないよ？　ちゃんとしゃべって？」)

> [**Maine** "Like I said, 'book'! I want a 'picture book'!"](original: 「だから、『本』！『絵本』がほしいの」)

> [**Tori** "What is that? I don't know what that is you know?"](original: 「それ、何？　わからないよ？」)


[It seems that using words that do not exist in Maine's memories get spoken as the japanese pronunciation.](original: 　どうやらマインの記憶にない言葉は日本語の発音になってしまうようだ。)

[No matter how much effort I put into trying to explain it, Tori only had a confused expression and tilted her head to the side. Even if I said "Give me books" there is no way it would get through. I immediately have to remember more words.](original: 　わたしがどんなに一生懸命に説明しても、トゥーリは不思議そうに首を傾げるだけだ。日本語で「本を出せ」と言っても通じるはずがない。さっさと言葉を覚えなければ。)


> [**Maine** "Ahhh, geez! 'Translation function, do your job!'"](original: 「あぁ、もう！『翻訳機能、仕事しろぉっ』！」)

> [**Tori** "Maine, why are you angry!?"](original: 「マイン、なんで怒るの！？」)

> [**Maine** "I'm not angry, I just have a headache."](original: 「怒ってない。頭が痛いだけ」)


[It would be too much and not like an adult getting mad at Tori because she can't understand my words, well, I already did.](original: 　言葉が通じないことをトゥーリのような子供に八つ当たりするのはさすがにおとなげなさすぎる。もうしちゃったけど。)

[What I first must do is listen as closely as I can to the voices of other people in order to learn as many words as I can. Between the young, pliable brain that Maine has and my 22 year old college graduate mind, learning words should be simple... I hope at least.](original: 　まずは、人の声に耳を澄まして、少しでも多くの言葉を覚えることに全力を尽くさなければならない。幼い子供であるマインの柔軟な脳味噌に、大学卒業した22歳のわたしの理性と知性が加われば、言葉を覚えるのは簡単……だったら、いいけれど。)

[At the very least, if I remember the pain and effort I put forth in learning new words and languages in order to read foreign books, this much is nothing at all. My passion and love for books was enough for people to retreat from me, rudely enough.](original: 　少なくとも、前世で他国の本を読もうと言語を覚えるために苦労したことを思い出せば、大した苦労ではない。わたしの本にかける情熱と愛は、失敬な事に周囲の人が引くレベルだった。)


> [**Tori** "Are angry because you still have a fever?"](original: 「……まだ熱あるから怒るの？」)


[She must want to try to measure my tempurature, as Tori is bringing her dirty hand closer to me, and I unconsciously grabbed that hand.](original: 　熱を測るつもりなのだろう、トゥーリの汚い手が自分に向かって伸びてくる。わたしは思わずその手をはしっと掴んだ。)


> [**Main** "I still have a fever, you'll catch it you know?"](original: 「まだ熱いから、うつるよ？」)


[By making it look like I'm worrying about the other person, I'm able to run away from things that I find unpleasant. I used this adult technique in order to dodge getting touched by Tori's filthy hand.](original: 　相手を心配しているように見せかけて、自分にとっては嫌なことから逃げる。大人ならではのテクニックでわたしはトゥーリの汚い手で触られることを回避した。)


> [**Tori** "I guess so, I'll be careful next time."](original: 「そうだね。気を付ける」)


[Safe.](original: 　セーフ。)

[If she were to get clean she would be a good older sister, but right now I don't want her to touch me. Since it's come to this point I'll stop at nothing in order to get the idea of hygenic living pounded into their minds. If I don't improve my current living conditions, I have a feeling that I won't be able to live.](original: 　清潔にしてくれたら良いお姉ちゃんだが、今は触られたくない。こうなったら、何とかして衛生観念を叩きこむしかない。環境の改善をしなければ、生きていけない気がする。)

[At least according to my memory, Maine was a child with a very weak constitution. She commonly was forced into bed with fever, as her memories from within bed are way too many.](original: 　記憶にある限りでは、どうやらマインは身体が弱い子で、よく熱を出して寝込んでいたらしい。ベッドでの記憶が多すぎる。)

[In order for me to read books to my heart's content, I have to improve the overall health of both me and my surroundings. We seem to be poor, so even if we get sick I have a feeling we won't get to see doctors anyway. Plus, from looking at these living conditions and what I imagine the level of doctors must be, I wouldn't want to meet them anyway.](original: 　わたしが心置きなく本を読むためにも、自分とその周囲は健康でなければならないのだ。貧乏っぽいのだから、病気になっても医者になんてかかれない気がするし、この環境の生活レベルから想像する医療行為にもお世話になりたくない。)


> [**Mom** "Tori, come help with the preparations for dinner."](original: 「トゥーリ、夕飯の支度を手伝ってちょうだい」)

> [**Tori** "Coming mom!"](original: 「はい、母さん」)


[It seems that Mom's voice came from somewhere, and Tori went racing out of the room. ](original: 　どうやら、どこからか母の声がして、トゥーリがパタパタと駆けていく。)

[Judging from angle of the sunlight from the view outside, most likely it's preparations for dinner. Tori at first glance seems to be in the lower grades of grade school, but she is reliably helping around the house.](original: 　窓の外の日差しの傾き具合から考えれば、おそらくこれから夕飯準備だろう。トゥーリはまだ見た感じ小学校の低学年くらいなのに、しっかりお手伝いをしているようだ。)

[Considering these poor conditions, most likely children are considered manual labor.](original: 　この貧しい状況だ。間違いなく子供も労働力の一つと考えて間違いない。)


> [**Maine** "Uwa, no way..."](original: 「うわぁ、嫌だ……」)


[Just thinking about the time when I will have grown more is a depressing thought. No matter how you think about it her alone helping with house work is unthinkable. My book reading time will no doubt be reduced.](original: 　自分が成長した時のことを考えると憂鬱な気分になる。どう考えても、一人だけお手伝いを免れるはずがない。読書の時間が減るのは確実。)

[Even in Japan, with all of it's useful electric applicances making housework easy I still found it troublesome. As a useless person such as myself who focused on getting as much book reading time as possible, will I be able to adapt to life here?](original: 　日本の家電を使うお手軽な家事でさえ面倒で、読書に時間を使いたい駄目人間だったわたしが、ここの生活に馴染めるだろうか。)


[Bang! Bang! I heard lively sounds echoing about, since they mentioned dinner preparations, those sounds must be the sounds of cooking. But exactly what are they cooking, I can't see from being put to bed in this place, but honestly I don't think I want to see.](original: 　ダンッ！　ダンッ！　と豪快な音が断続的に響いてくる。夕飯の準備をすると言っていたので、多分料理をしている音だとは思うが、一体何が起こっているんだろう。寝転がっているこの場からは見えないが、正直見たくない気もする。)

[I was specially able to reincarnate into this new life, I should have a more positive look about things. I'll be able to read books that didn't exist on earth. For that reason too, I should focus on getting myself healthy, thinking that I slowly closed my eyes.](original: 　せっかく転生できたのだから、もっとポジティブに考えなければ駄目だ。地球にはなかった本が読めるのだから、そのためにも、まずは体調を整えよう。そう考えながら、ゆっくりと目を閉じていく。)


> [**?** "I'm home."](original: 「ただいま」)

> [**Tori** "Welcome back, Dad."](original: 「おかえり、父さん」)


[Hearing the clanging sound of armor rubbing against eachother, it seems by the time dad got home dinner was ready.](original: 　ガッシャガッシャと金属の擦れる音をさせながら、父が帰宅する頃には夕飯の準備はできたようだ。)

[Since feverish Maine couldn't eat, feeling distanced from the happy family meal occuring in the distance, I could feel my consciousness slowly drifting. ](original: 　まだご飯を食べることができない高熱のマインを除いた家族団欒を少し遠くに感じつつ、意識がゆっくりと落ちていくのがわかった。)

[As my consciousness was drifting into the darkness, I was thinking about only one thing.](original: 　意識が暗闇に落ちながら、考えることは一つだけ。)


[Aa, whatever it is I want to read a book.](original: 　あぁ、何でもいいから本が読みたい。)
